so prime has you convinced to try to get everyone to say squeal it sounds like because you're saying
squeal light and my squeal because he's because he's right i mean it's the when you think about
it's the only possible pronunciation because it's not a sequel like like ask you well it's
too weird and sequel is like so what's the prequel do you want do we need a prequel now is there
a sequel so squeal look he's just right and that's it right he's just right there's technically no
problems with squeal besides the fact that it maybe just sounds a little ridiculous to most people
but that's only until you get used to it
yeah if there's any germans listening to that like uh the only phrase i know in german
is ich glauben ich bin glauber yeah which means i believe i am the believer good glauben
and then i am the believer i guess i guess i don't know i mean that's better maybe they're all
trolling me because the entirety of german is trolling me that's definitely a possibility yeah
when i when i saw your name i i've seen this whole time you're a european because it i could
like recognize it was like a more european sound yeah i i met i met a guy in germany as well he said
he hated me because of my name but his name was jon glauber right and he said before you started
contributing to the links kernel i could just look into the logs like a contribution and grab
for glauber and i would find myself but now you've completely ruined that experience for me because
now there's you because obviously you want to do this with jon just yeah lava was his last name
right just that it was my first name but cost that costa is Portuguese which is my last name okay
hey you said you're from brazil but i know like in argentina there's a lot of i was born
brazil yeah argentina is a lot of like european ancestry there too because i know a bunch of
argentinans that have european last names like like very german last names yeah well like i guess
uh one of the most famous brazilian persons there is like josel she has a very extremely
german last name i mean this is not my case like my family i think is mostly Portuguese just my
names there okay when do they go over the brazil how many generations ago the how do i know i was
actually like i i'm going to get canceled for that one but um here we are uh i was i actually had my
brazilian citizenship revoked uh they don't allow me in the country yeah oh wow i absolutely despise
soccer i hate it just like get the f out of here don't ever come back and i i don't come back i mean
i just i don't have a lot of cultural uh connection yeah so to speak mostly because of that right i don't
like soccer so who are you yeah i mean i'm the same way i'm like at this point i'm fully american
like i haven't been back to india in 15 years maybe i am an american citizen but i think i have
the i forgot what it was but i have this thing where i'm technically the us doesn't recognize dual
citizenship but uh india is fine with it so i think i'm taking it's like my backup in case
something really really bad happens i do have a backup but again i have no real connection there
at all always good to have a backup now well you're saying uh you're talking about you used to be or
you're contributed to the linux kernel um so i guess before we get into some stuff like it's
set a little bit of context so uh you are now a founder of a company called torso um prior to that
you worked on something called cilla which i'm actually familiar with and we can kind of talk
about that a little bit and as well as you were a linux contributor so tell me more about like
how all that came together and kind of your career path up to starting to work on torso yeah
yeah absolutely so like when i when i started my career like i didn't much care about startups
or anything like that uh i again i i think the environment that i was it wouldn't have made sense
anyway but like i really liked open source and i i think we had some exchanges you might have been
part of some of them on twitter like when i was doing open source back then first of all i didn't
do open source because open source was the dirty word i did free software right so i was actually a
member of the free software foundation and like uh richard stoneman and all the things like that
and and i still think by the way that like if it richard stoneman i don't know if we can curse or
not but if it wasn't such an asshole uh we will probably be in a better position because like the
ideas of resaupture are great just this personality is intractable uh but anyway this wasn't in the
original question but like i i took i i always so i like free software or open source as as we call
it the distilled version today and i liked uh low-level stuff i was never too much i mean this
distinguishable like uh the web and and later on mobile like you never attracted me uh as as as a
developer uh i i always was fascinated with the Linux kernel and and systems like systems level
software in general and the moment i found oh i can actually read the code for this stuff uh that
that sold me 100 so i started there and i was just i mean i was still in school so i was contributing
um i have the story and and and i try to find it just for for twitter's sake uh where my first
contribution to the Linux kernel unfortunately this happened in 2004 and i think the the oldest
thread that i could find was 2005 like archive threads so i i couldn't find this message my first
contribution to the Linux kernel this guy i'll never forget him or viral uh he comes and say that
this patch is is wrong in so many ways it has only three lines of code but introduces seven bugs
and it should never be allowed to close your computer again so i mean that was that was my first
introduction like Linux is known to be like this very welcoming place right uh i don't know if
it's bad or not today but like i did this for you any anyhow i got super sad about that but i didn't
let them you know it affected me for a couple of days but i kept doing it uh and i just started
contributing for you know fun fun and giggles uh obviously i mean i liked it so i wanted a career
out of that but it wasn't clear at that point so i started doing it eventually got hired by Red Hat
uh they started i worked in total uh in the Linux kernel uh a little bit before Red Hat i had a
small job uh in a company in Russia that's when i moved to Russia which i did uh to work for this
company for another two years but in total i spent like ten years doing this and one of my major
things that i did in the Linux kernel uh was i i was a part of the kvm team uh the virtualization
the hypervisor that AWS today uses and i got to be very good friends with the creator of kvm and
when they started startup uh they don't say hey maybe maybe now is the time for me to stop looking
into just like hey cold cold cold cold then go work in a startup environment uh i i don't think at
the time i would have worked very well in like a general purpose startup i mean it was a very
heavy infrastructure startup so i joined uh we were trying to do something that did not work at all
uh so we spent a lot of time doing that uh that was called OSV which was a no which was an operating
system like a library OS uh just just for dimension and then after that didn't work that company
pivoted into cilla so that's uh that's how i ended up with cilla at the time i knew nothing
about databases you could argue that i still don't you know just uh it's always a you could
argue i mean why not just uh it would be fun but uh that's how i got introduced to like the database
world and etc yeah so i think uh i think that's maybe where it's not other paths cross but i guess
your work crossed crossed me at least uh so i was i was pretty early on my career at the point i was
working at a company that was just collecting a ton of ton of analytics data um and we deployed
Cassandra i was back in the day you know like deploying Cassandra meant like running up your servers
and like creating the club like doing everything or it's not it's not like there was a managed
Cassandra actually there was a managed Cassandra option i'm forgetting the name of the company
uh was it data starting this training one no data stacks their managed data stacks was the
main company they did manage Cassandra much later that was just the cluster cluster yeah yeah yeah
that's the one good guys the super good folks nice yeah but uh at this time we were kind of
running it on our own and i was like i like and i i think i've had a weird career maybe
your career is also maybe a little bit non-traditional um i spent a lot to say the least
in terms like databases i think most people when they start to build stuff they will use like a
relational database and they'll spend most of their career there and maybe every once in a while
they're like interact with like a non sequel type database uh is weird inverse path where i mostly
work with non-sequel databases for a long time and only more recently i've been using
uh sequel focused databases um so so look my my career if it's even weird than that because
before i used the non-sequel database i wrote one yeah that's funny like i wasn't a user of that
like eventually i which is why like honest honest you got i mean i think the founders know that
are so very good friends of them i love them too to my hard but i i considered quitting
right because when we were pivoting it was like what the hell do i know about this i mean like it
doesn't doesn't feel like i know about it like so again i was not the the person ideating that we
should build this but we decided to build this and i was like i feel very out of place uh two months
my my the first like two months before after we officially pivoted it was like really a bad time
for me because imagine that i came i came from this perspective like i've done this thing that i know
how to do for 10 years and then i'm in the startup what i call it the whole reason i'm in the startup
is because we're doing this the stuff that i'm really i'm really good at uh and talk what you want
about you have to be flexible etc like after 10 years you kind of get set in your ways and it
also easier said than done uh eventually i got to the point where hey look now i'm in a good place
i'm cruising but my first two months were like a really complicated man because but then i wrote
a database before i even even knew about one i just i had no idea how no sequel worked or anything
like that yeah i mean once you're 10 years into something you're like used to being pretty good at
it and then when you have to shift yeah exactly this feeling is not easy yeah it's tough this feeling
is not easy yeah but it's also like the most important thing to get through yeah i feel it today
because i've been a developer like a low-level systems programmer for 20 years now if you sum up
both and i'm a founder like what the hell do i know i know nothing yeah it's a it's a painful
feeling but it's also what prevents you from getting bored right i'm sure like you do anything for
long enough it's like you there's not as many opportunities to to feel like you're you're progressing so
those resets are good um so yeah we were we had a Cassandra deployment and i think that's when i
first i think still i had just come out or like it came out of it so i forgot what it was but then
it came across uh and we were constantly oh here's the other thing so we did not know what we were
doing when we were sort of first started using Cassandra it took us a little while to understand
the idea of partitions and how partitions and how you should like how you data model stuff uh so
we definitely went through that cycle of doing it wrong uh wondering why our cluster was like just
dying but also at that point we were like man this is this model is interesting and it's
useful but i really felt like the Java aspect of it was kind of really killing us in a lot of ways
and just dealing with a lot of those side effects you have when you are running such a large-scale
Java fateful thing um yeah and it's still kind of still it was in C++ right it was like uh
that's right compatible with Cassandra and then but like the under the hood it was completely
from scratch yeah C++ and then like i i will never forget when we announced till there was this
message on the Cassandra mailing list like people commenting on it and a bunch of people man this
is their reaction the favorite reaction of the internet like those a bunch of idiots like oh
yeah don't other people we had another group of people claiming that they're better how can they
be 10 times faster because like C++ is like and then it starts CPU bound and IO bound and
blah blah nobody deeply looked into that yeah and then it's just like oh they must be they must be
running everything in memory that's why it's faster like it just uh man and like the the thing is that
the arcade yes we wrote the whole thing in C++ but then the architectural differences between Cassandra
and C++ and Cilla were so immense like the the 10x was usually the baseline i mean we were much
more than 10 times faster by the way i'm watching bun now yeah with with that feeling of like hey
those guys are doing what we did to uh to Cassandra back then so i know how that story plays out and
like uh i'm wishing Jared here all the all the luck in the world it's tough it's hard uh he's already
starting to hear some of the things that we heard back then oh you said this is dropping replacement
but it isn't really because there is this different and those differences will be there forever right
so it's a tough fight but it's a fight we're fighting because man like we need more efficiency in our
lives i guess yeah you know it's definitely an important thing and i think especially when something
new comes out uh i talk about it's all the time people will point to things that are missing as
though it's like relevant uh there are some things in bun that are missing but there's nothing architecturally
that prevents those things from eventually showing up so i think people get hung up we hit we hit an
issue we hit an issue with through so uh running with bun as well so when i get it i get it and but
what happens is like what from the point of view of the person like Jared or like us at Silla what
you do is that you look at the market you look at how people are using this and then you notice that
okay there's a thousand people they use this uh this feature is needed by 800 people and then
i'm going to go and quote that feature this other feature is like needed by 10 people or 20 people
etc so maybe i'll do this later i'm not going to do it at all so if a thousand people try it and
they say well i just dropped in and it worked and then some other people try it and it doesn't work
like is it dropping replacement i think it is because i mean so
Cassandra wasn't dropping replacement with Cassandra at the times and i guess no it has the same
thing right you change something here you change something there so yeah it's a different thing
but you know at the end of the day you can definitely claim it is yeah yeah i think people get hung
up on like the little details but it eventually will be and there's nothing preventing it from
covering it and that's kind of one of the nice things about selling into a market that's so clearly
defined like when you're doing drop on placement people will just tell you exactly what you need
to do and in what order i think when you're building things that are a little bit more like brand new
or it's not really established you're constantly like what do i do next i have these hundred things
that i can do which one do i do which one matters the moment you have something so established it's
like the roadmap is included i mean it's very challenging in a bunch of different ways but
the question of like what do what should we be doing isn't you know as as prevalent you worked
at sila did you have you been there since then and you started to sew or did you stop by anywhere else
full story like the full story is that like after in 2020 i left sila so i was i knew i was ready
to make them move i mean i've been there for almost eight years and and etc but then in 2020 everybody
remembers what happens in 2020 so just uh wasn't wasn't the right time i was moving homes as well as
moving to a different city i have i have recently had my first kid so i joined data dog and my plan
of course like no joke my plan was to stay a data dog for like a couple a couple of years i said
in two years four years maybe let me get my full vesting when you know let me because that's the
time i mean i never like doing like a lot of uh job hopping uh which is what i said i've done
almost eight years of red hat uh and then maybe i'm doing like they do the popes i mean there was
the story that with popes like they have a long raining pop and then the next one they tried to
make it short but then you know i just i have kind of did this uh by accident so after eight years of
red hat they had two years that i stayed in this company in russia uh then i stayed eight years with
with cilla uh and one year a data dog again i wanted to do more uh but uh i think fate wanted
this way uh i had a couple of investors that were reaching capital in 2020 was very early
abundant right oh i remember good times oh yeah good times yeah i had a bunch of investors reaching
out to me essentially hey if you ready to start the company which i always wanted to do right just
i'm ready to sign a check it's okay like just uh uh and then uh michael founder and i like we doodle on
some ideas uh the the first idea that we hit was also not through so like we started doing something
else which is super funny because it was always like when i start my own company i had this trauma
of like the company that became cilla doing this extreme like very very little validation like
just not and if they've done i've seen none of that right uh and then we ended up pivoting because
nobody wanted to use the product like they were like in in your very wise words the the words that
you are uh very famous for on twitter they had zero users uh after two years developing so i said i
you know the thing of when i have my kids i'm not gonna do like that same thing when i have my own
startup i'm gonna do tons of validation which i did and ended up ended up with zero users anyway
so i mean that taught me a lesson that taught me a lesson right to just the easier said than done
and validation and where do you look for those signs so it's essentially an opportunistic thing
i mean i saw the cap that we had an idea that we truly believed in we thought hey this is this
is a good idea this is something that we want to do uh and then i talked to peck i said michael
founder and said hey peck like if let's let's do it man and just that he was a little bit frightened
you know because europeans they're not as adventurous as we are like uh but eventually we decided we
decided to do it yeah so i mean the the validation thing is really interesting i did the basically
the exact same thing it's funny like you can know all this stuff and then until you do it you just
make the exact same mistakes that you thought you were gonna avoid i ended up i read it i later on
like and i almost dislike the guy now i'm kidding i just i love him one of my best advisors uh pete
hunter creator or react if you're hearing that uh as you know i love you i got borderline mad at him
for not mentioning this to me before right but obviously he recommend he recommended me a book
that i read and recommend it to your audience here called the mom test hmm have you heard this
book i know the concept i didn't know it was a whole book yeah it's a whole book and the concept is
again pretty simple that i had never done before like if you ask people uh what do they think of
your idea they're gonna lie to you so the book is about like strategies to extract the truth
from a group of people that you know gonna lie to you because your mom it's just she's never gonna
say oh it sucks it's a great idea oh of course a great idea go for it like uh but like how do you
extract the truth from people that uh are lying to you and reading that book i mean i saw the story of
many things that i've done wrong many many things that i've done wrong because you think you're
validating you think you're validating like because you're talking to a lot of people because you're
asking a lot of questions but then everybody's lying to you and in some ways you're worse off by
having tried to validate incorrectly then they're not validating at all because now you're like
very committed to a direction that's not maybe maybe sound yeah it's the stuff is so counter-intuitive
like another thing that i run to is uh i think oh i see a lot as people pick like ideas that are
too small the emotions behind it kind of make sense it's like you are trying to start something
from zero you got to pick a narrow area to focus on so you can like start somewhere but you still
need an idea that's huge otherwise like you're just gonna get stuck in this little tiny thing that
you know you're never really gonna break break into something so that's another mistake i've made
where you had to find you got to make sure you start small but your entire idea can't just be
just that and we're listening you can listen to me say this you can hear me say as you think you
understand it but you're gonna make this mistake too nobody can save you time it's as impossible
it's not only the hardest things that uh you have to deal with maybe want to give a quick description
of what terso is and we can kind of talk about what was so compelling for you guys to start it
also again we didn't start terso so the compelling the compelling thing was uh
was a different idea right the original project that we had was called chisel strike
i'm i'm getting convinced i mean this is super hard thing for us to admit because like as a founder
you kind of love your ideas you you always tend to think oh i have the right idea but the wrong
this happened and this happened it's it's easy to put blame outside right but but i think i put
the blame squarely on us i think we've uh we ended up with what uh y combinator and so a great video
of them describes is a tarpet idea right because that idea there's very reductive and then you look
at the market and there is no established players and then you think wow this is my opportunity but
again the reason there is no established players is that people tried before and and they got you
know they started to tarpet uh so but uh again i'm not gonna spend too much time on it but it was
essentially uh what we we understood a couple of we had a couple of good ideas as part of this
tarpet idea one of them was that uh squeal light it was a great database for like today's workload
uh again go back to mongo tv in 2010 like the web scale kind of thing this kind of workloads
that people run on mongo tv back then didn't grow that much like so the workloads are
growing but they're growing very slowly like people talk about data growing exponentially
this is true for some subsets of data but uh you know but the the machines got a lot bigger like the
mongo tv that back then like a today can have a device they rent from AWS with a terabyte of
of of NVMe like like it's nothing uh and big data back then was like a hundred gigabytes right and
and so we understood like for the today's workload squeal light is the thing to do and it runs locally
the developer experience is the best possible uh and it's super cheap so you can really put it
everywhere and and like uh and we wanted we we knew that the edge was real uh in in a sense because
like there's a lot of confusion about what is the edge and like is this a runtime or what not but
like from from my i didn't come from this industry so like oh this whole thing about edge run time
this was new to me i was looking into the edges like hey this thing between the cloud and you yes
right so this is real i mean however you want to call it this is how you get latency to this
in place so we knew this was the thing and then we knew like all those front and developers are
all trying to deploy to the edge let's look into that uh we knew squeal light was part of the answer
because uh you know my squeal and postgres were not really up to you know they're too just too heavy
uh and and and we've done a bunch of stuff around that we we embedded dino into like a we had a
something that was dino plus squeal light plus a bunch of stuff together and that was chisel strike
right yeah catch it over time we kind of noticed that uh yeah we weren't really getting the traction
that we needed but the database part was uh was super people really liked it and
tells you a lot by the way about market and about there are some ideas that they potentially are
good idea depending where and and from whom they come from uh and what a lot of people told us is
that look your idea is very confusing because you're claiming to be a code platform because there
is TypeScript but then you but you also database and like it what where do I deploy this i mean
is this something in the place of herself like no you deploy part of you deploy a front end coach
of herself but they need to play her back and coach to us so there was some confusion in there
and being just a database allow us to get the nice parts of that idea like the parts that were
resonating more of the people put this in a category i mean and the category thing matters
for people who are thinking about creating your own startups matter a lot more than you would
think it matters so just which category that that you choose to play so it's a it's a category
that i that we understand as as the founders it's a categories that developers understood lots of
the resistance that developer had to a point to your your out to the service when you say point
as your out to your database right this this resistance is gone and again we knew that squirrel
like there was the way to get this thing replicated everywhere at a low cost which is what we specialize
in doing and go from there and develops locally so the good parts like we took the good parts so
let's try to build a company out just on top of that and that was like a billion trillion times
more successful of course but let's talk about this edge so i i also agree with the whole like
edge runtime so i don't know if you remember or if you saw like i was very upset for a couple of
days being like can we stop it with this edge runtime thing it's like the worst name thing in
the world everyone is so confused about it whenever we talk about it they're like wait like nobody
understands because sometimes when people think about it as like the geography some people think
about it as a runtime uh and then the thing that kills me that proves my point is edge runtime is
a bad name if you now also release a project product called regional edge runtime they just
out of the word regional yeah just like just call it something else please uh but i think it's too late
i think it's it's messed up the name i get i go crazy with the naming stuff because there's more
and there's more the the part that annoys me the most is that like i again uh application developers
put it this way because i i'm saying that because i i it's not a mistake that i believe i've seen
first people like you making like people in infrastructure so uh maybe it's just because like
however selling cloud fair have been marketing this but application developers tend to associate
too much edge with serverless yeah so a lot of a lot of the things they say about the quote unquote
the edge are really limitations because of the serverless model not because of the edge
uh and then because of the specific platform so here's stuff like go edge on the edge so the
other databases for example like the planet scale neon for example they claim we have an edge
database why because it talks over HTTP what what why does that make you an edge database
well because the edge only supports fetch no just yeah no the edge just uh those specific places
like the versatile cloud fair it does not even truly mark because you look at cloud flare they're
changing now their workers to do TCP yeah so what what is an edge database and our response to that
is that like an edge database needs to be a database that replicates so there are two things that
makes the edge of the edge for me first of all massive replication because the edge in any
incarnation is that i'm executing my code close to my users boom right so if the data is far you're
you're you're you're either not better or at worse slower now because you have many round trips to
the database before you you know it was simpler like the difference between deploying to the edge
and then i'm everywhere and deploying to AWS in five regions with five Kubernetes clusters is that
when you do the latter you're very aware of where your regions are you're very aware of west room
going where like those those things are very explicit in your design and and i think when you think
about the edge those things are transparent right so you push your code out there be to a
serverful edge offering or a serverless edge offering and shit kind of just works and you don't
have to be thinking about where is my stuff right now it is where it needs to be so for me an edge
database is not only a database that is replicated in a lot of locations for a reasonable price
but also a database that doesn't require you to worry about where my replicas are how do i get
there which replica has which data this does have to be transparent so that's what we've done with
tourism it happens to be over HTTP because we were like a sure i mean if everybody thinks this
limitation is there let's do it which it is in practice for those run times but that's not the
most important part but the important part is how how massively it replicates and how you don't
have to worry about any of that yeah yeah exactly i think that confusion is definitely there i think
when i was writing about this i pointed out because a lot of people were saying like oh you can't deploy
no js the edge and i was like well here use AWS lambda at edge you know okay it's not like fully
replicated like everything else but that is no js you can run go at the edge if you want because
they support go functions if you use fly.io you can deploy whatever you want to deploy whatever so
yeah i think the thing that kills me is a confusion because it just makes communicating super inefficient
so like every single day among millions of people in this space there's like all these little
misconceptions and infusions and so that's why i'm like obsessed with getting naming right because
you can just save a lot of backing for the time people get into arguments people get into arguments
because they just are misunderstanding each other too right so that's what bothers me and for example
this week this week is our it's the middle for launch week so we have we have launched two things
well more more than two things but like two things there for me like very important one of them if
you had checked out that was our launch on Tuesday the 26th is embedded replicas right so embedded
replicas essentially allow you to get your like so torso now becomes your primary your rights go
to the torso and you can still replicate at our infrastructure but it can also have a replica
in your infrastructure whatever you want to be on AWS on fly.io etc so like this is for me like
just to some extent the real edge because now it's like hey what is the closest point that i have
to my user i can put the database there and this first of all is microsecond latency right because
you're running but but but to do that i need a file system right so it this will not run on the
first cell edge this will not run on the cloud flare edge but it can put like anywhere you want
to can put it on fly.io can put on koya you can put like really on a server that you want and it
even works with environments in which you don't have connectivity if you have no connectivity of
course it doesn't work but if you have like intermittent connectivity you come back online and then you
sync to the primary but from their point on you have like local reads so again this is us taking
stuff to really the let's call it the edge of the edge but this is also edge this is also part of
the edge this is also part of okay how do i get my data as close as possible to my users right just
people were still running some stuff on AWS so for you running on the AWS in a specific region
the closest place to you is there it's not like a in my infrastructure yeah yeah that makes sense
um yeah the other thing i think you mentioned briefly is uh i think people heard the word edge
and they started to think okay everything is going to move to the edge so they started moving
their application code to the edge but then uh i think you mentioned before like if you're doing
let's say three round trips to your database those three round trips are now really expensive
and your application quality is going to be slower so i think unless you unless you move your database
to the edge as well which is but then again it has to be it has to be actually moving the data and
not just like all database at the edge because it talks issue no yeah physically yeah i think the
the metaphor i use is like imagine a string with a bunch of beads on it one's a user one's your
application one's your database you move your application close to the user and you don't move
your database use now have a problem so you have to move everything closer but even if you move
your database closer it's now further away from all the other replication nodes and that's something
i wanted to ask you about was uh with this model uh kind of what are the new things you need to start
considering right because i think a lot of people that are used to like a single master uh database
they may not be used to considering certain scenarios that can that can happen my counterpoint
to that is that lots of people think about a database of a single master yes but they they're
usually thinking about that plus a cache like there are very few deployments that don't have
some form of pressure right so when you if you if you're thinking about replacing those two things
together uh which again you don't have to but you should then then things become a little bit easier
but but to your point like when you have a database in a single place like every time every time you
read the database everything is 100 consistent for everyone at all times in every place in every
situation uh when when you have when you have something like what we're providing then you have
relaxed consistency it's not that different than reading from a read replica from like say Postgres
or or any any other database that people are used to that read replica can be a little bit out of sync
but depending on the model which then is the model that we follow you can never break a transaction
so in silo for example Cassandra which was full eventual consistency right as you probably remember
you never truly know what you're reading from the from the database so it never it's it's like a
those mutations are applied and they can happen out of order and and you know you write to two
keys and then there's no if you hit this note this it will have one of the keys but you won't have
the other like that is full like eventual consistency uh and then you have a very expensive process
running on the background that is finding those differences and merging those differences that's
not what we do right so what we do is that like a once the right first of all you can write from
any replica you can write we don't have we don't talk too much in in those terms because you can
write from any node in fact we only give you a single URL you have the single URL and you're
automatically routed to the closest uh location so you can always read you can always write from
those locations always but the rights always go to a proxy that we consider the primary right so if
you happen to hit a quote-quote-unquote replica the replica itself will write to the primary wait for
the right to complete and bring it back so as long as you're always by the way as long as you're
hitting the same replica uh you do have this vision so for the application that is like for the user
imagine you have a user in India like so the user if you have a replica in India very likely your user
is always hitting that same uh that same location so that person will have a fully consistent view
uh of of of the timeline the person who's hitting you from Australia may see data that is a little
bit behind but always transactional this call essentially is snapshot isolation so always
transactional a transaction is never broken they're always applied in every replica in the same order
so you you boy you can be it's similar so like if you have a long standing transaction on a database
uh so the transaction is going on let's exaggerate for minutes like the clients that are coming
before the transaction have committed they haven't really seen the state update right so it's a
similar thing I mean people who are in different locations they are seeing an older state uh but
but but never out of order and always uh you know always transactional if you need if you say hope
for this specific request they absolutely need to select the latest stage and etc then you can
force this request to go to the primary you can read from the primary can pay the price but you
can have so it is one thing that developers have to consider am I okay with this request at this
point being can transactional like in the same order that everybody seen not missing any data
until that point but uh maybe a couple of milliseconds in the past if you're okay then read from a
replica right just then yeah if you're not okay maybe again you should be using a central database
which is yeah that makes sense um yeah I mean it's like the what I forgot they call that read after
write consistency whatever yeah read your own rights that that's what we have like read your own
rights so if you write it said if for monorapica and I write uh this right will not be acknowledged
until all the the state has come back so you're going to always read your own rights right got it
got it yeah yeah except I think that that's probably maybe the most common case of people
would run into um but yeah very cool so I am kind of curious so what kind of are there certain types
of applications that are that you guys see more often or is it kind of widespread do all kinds of
stuff like yeah so I mean there are there is a couple of clusters forming and again this week
we're hoping to expansion one more cluster uh but first about like the ones that we already seen
the applications that want to be fast from from anywhere right so there are like uh there are a
group of people uh who and one example we have they use case on our website a super fast site like
trippedepan.com always talked about them because their site really is like incredibly fast and like
a first time I talked to their founder he was like look I'm selling trips to Japan my customers are
everywhere in the world accepting Japan I can and I want to sell like those you know you're going
there so you're trying to sell this personalized bundles I think it's a very latency sensitive thing
I mean you I want to provide you like uh I don't want customers giving up I want to provide you
with always a fast experience uh and wear like pretty much everywhere so the point on cloud for our
workers uh using tours so uh the other the other thing that we see a lot are used cases where you
essentially are a platform uh so again because because of squirrel light because this thing runs
locally uh if you have an SDK uh you have something that you want to ship to people you you put
dinos doing this I mean they they're doing something similar than what we're doing they just build
their own infrastructure but with us you can have something like what dinner is building with dino
kv uh except in you know in in much shorter time because we built a lot of the infrastructure as well
and one example that we have of that is Fermi on a web assembly platform uh there are they're doing
a similar thing so you use their SDK there's squirrel light locally everything works you have the
database is always there so you can we can build those advanced functionalities that depend on the
database and when you deploy to their platform then tour so provisions of database for you everything
is API based and and again the other thing that we hear a lot and this is not again we don't have
use cases with that yet but people come to us and say hey you guys are school I based and
it's just a file why is it that you're why why is it that you're you're limited to three databases
in the free plan and five databases in in the scalar plan or six databases in the scalar plan I
want to I want to write a multi-tenant SAS application and again I heard this word with from a variety of
people I do not know that this was a use case right because it was like maybe use case naming use
cases is as hard as naming everything anything but people would come with this specific wording
like I have a multi-tenant SAS and I want to give a database for each customer which is why yesterday
we up the limit again we can go into the technical details as to why we did it this way and why it
wasn't possible before but we're essentially you as you can see on the website we up the limit
from three databases in the free tier to 500 databases oh wow and on the scalar on the scalar
tier instead of six databases I have 10,000 databases and this should allow you as long as you have
users of course so people who don't have users who listen to DAX okay you maybe only need a database
but as you as you increase your users hopefully then then you can still give them a database per
user and keep your cost extremely low and we did this by making our platform itself multi-tenant
right so the way we the way you used to do is that every time you provision a trace of database
we provision a VM for you with firecracker and etc full isolation and etc but then we moved to
our server allowing more than one namespace or more than one file per server and now in the same
server you can have all of those files in and again if you're doing per user data each one each one
of those databases maybe have like a megabyte or 100 kilobytes or something like that so very small
so provisioning a full volume for that database doesn't work but like we essentially made everything
multi-tenant and now we can give you like a this unreasonable amount of databases yeah it's very
cool it's a use case that I think is like I said it's very common I worked at a company and we had
that exact model we used very familiar with LMDB of course I am yeah yeah yeah so LMDB is like it's
very cool for what it's optimized for it's just a key value store uh ghost with single file memory
mapped extremely fast or reads uh we basically had one of those per customer we were in a
compliance sense of space and it was actually very nice because we never had to usually get like a
giant security questionnaire of like all these things the moment we said you get your own database
half those questions they don't need to ask and they don't have to worry about uh it's just something
that makes people more comfortable the other nice part is you don't have to handle the concept of
multiple customers in your application code so usually people need to remember oh with every query
I I write I need to make sure I add like where customer equals whatever and inevitably you
forget to do that in one place you're accidentally querying stuff across customer when you do it
when you have a database per customer you just configure that in one place and then all queries
are guaranteed to be limited so yeah that is a very cool model and uh I haven't used that as
much lately but it is something that it's like very clean if you're winning something up yeah
again uh we just had to build it because again going back to our previous thing about validation
this is validation right this is not me talking to a customer uh and say hey would you like 10,000
databases so of course their answer is gonna be yes right of course right who would say no yeah
right and then and then you ask them like hey do you know do you think it's nice what if I offer
you this feature they say yes but do they use it no again but what we had what we had was of with
this feature in particular was a stream of users you go to our discord channel this is there all
the time you go on twitter you don't believe me you go on twitter you you look for true so uh
and there's a lot of people asking for this on twitter and they all asking the exact same thing
with with the exact same words like uh for iance here and there but like hey i want
i want to do a database per customer intuitively i think it should be doable in your model because
you're based on squealite and people are doing this with school like why can't i do it with you
yeah right so for maybe i'm wrong and nobody's gonna use this the week is just getting started
but in in my book i mean this is this is a lot more validation than the usual like hey go and
ask and see and talk and then take notes because it was good it was good on a personal level that's
what i mean like just that taught me the real difference between like listening to your customers
there's one way to do it and and there's another way to do it right yeah that's actually the best
part of actually having users is just they'll just tell you and like demand things uh and oftentimes
it's always like should we do this and then you can just say let's wait till people start complaining
and when they do you know you have to do it so it's it's funny like the hardest time is when you
have no users by yourself in your head the moment you have at least some it just gets a hundred times
easier so this this is why i like the stuff that you talk about twitter so much because when you
have no users like man if i tell you the amount of stuff that we've done in the beginning in the
early days of thursu because imagine that we were coming from a pivot we were like oh man we would
screw this up we you know what what's up like in our mind like the most important thing was
will people want this like we were we were not like we don't have another chance i mean if we come
up or something that people don't want it like we had we had the theory that people would want it
because that's the part they liked the most about the the whole story before but so what right just
the uh if if i don't build something that people want it now i don't have another chance that's what
crossed our minds right so man it it things that we didn't care about in the beginning will this service
scale right like what what if i have 10 000 users and i was like look i'm happy if i have a hundred
right just uh are like are things automatic like uh it's another podcast just for me to tell the
whole story of the kind of corners we cut back then yeah and then what we saw now it's picking up
or now users are getting okay now we're going to sit down uh and we're going to re-architecture this
thing and and the multitenis is just one example but you know the you need to have users and to
have users you don't need Kubernetes you don't need microservices you don't need scaling you don't
need any of that crap right just uh you need to put it out there yeah yeah you need you need to
shift um yeah and it's just like the thing that always gets me is it just gets so much easier like
the hardest you'll ever work and think is very very early and that you have new challenges and
and new problems of course but uh for me once a company is past the at stage of like is what
the most miserable time is when you don't know if anything you're doing will ever be paid attention
to by anyone that's like the most miserable time uh but you got to go through that and i think for
me uh i think people have a lot of opinions and i talk about all these things and i i can kind of
look back at younger versions of myself and see how i thought and see how i thought like how i expected
things to work then i looked through how okay when i was actually in the seat doing this work
completely different i was like became a completely different person so i think the opposite of what
used to think um so with a lot of these things it's tough to have these conversations a lot of times
because i remember thinking a certain way and i nothing no one could have said anything to me
nothing changed my mind until i was in that position and i like really understood are we stubborn are
we stubborn backs is that what's that is i'm definitely a stubborn person for sure i'm definitely a
smart person it's very hard to get through to me but i think uh some level it's true for
true for everyone you don't really understand till you're in the in the seat you know one of my
favorite movies is the matrix the original one of course like not uh let's not even talk about the
last one there's a scene that that stuff i mean i actually think they did it on purpose because
there's a bunch of jokes in the movie about like a crappy sequels or two who knows but i there's
the scene that i love in which guy is neo it's like the chosen one like essentially right there's
jesus christ figure who's gonna come and save us all in the movie and it has to take this jump from
the building and everybody's looking like expecting everybody fails right oh yeah sure everybody but
here's the one so there's this expectation that has gonna succeed but he fails nevertheless yeah
right so i think there are some things that you only learn when you do it and because you don't
you think you know before you actually do it but then like they don't it doesn't match reality
exactly as you as you thought so you may have a good you know foundation but it's not a perfect
fit it's only a perfect fit after you go through it yeah yeah there's so many times where i'm like
this is a principle i know it's bad to do it companies should not do this six months later
somehow i find myself oops i did it like it just you can think you know i did it again yeah and then
you just don't tell it takes a couple times why britainous peers britainous peers will be a better
startup advisor than a lot of people just under i did it again yeah just uh just it's why all these
things is all about being able to stick around for the long term you know kind of been doing this for
in the startup space for a very long time i think it'll pass maybe year or two i think i finally
feel like okay i think i kind of starting to get what this is about but i've made the same mistake
like a bunch of times for me to really get there by the way the thing the the thing that we've done
that is one of the things that we've done yeah we had this we had this thing in the
beginning like we were we knew we want to charge people per usage not like vms and cpu and etc
like planet scale is kind of backtracking on that they're giving like now vms but we were hearing
from the community i mean we made in the future who knows me but we were hearing for a lot of
people that they prefer just requests okay so we're gonna charge for requests and we didn't have
the time to building for a structure to track those requests right yeah and we're like oh but i
want to put this out on a specific date and like how how and how long does it's gonna take to build
this i just said like a this again such a such a life lesson man because we hear about mvp do your
do the list amount possible but you know until you're there like you obviously oh but we need this
this is super important this is super important it's only when you have the deadline yeah in the
commitment they said they start seeing that yeah you know what this thing that i thought was super
important turns out is not and the request tracking was the first you go we essentially didn't build
any we said you have a billion reads per month for free and we never measured yeah we are doing
the exact same thing with our current product like we we have a free tier measured but if you go out
of free tier we're not stopping you from accessing it so exactly yeah because you start thinking like
why that the hell would anybody care i mean like what i need now it's just to validate that this
thing is going to work and people are going to like it yeah if they use a billion and chew like are
they going to complain no nobody's going to complain i mean they would complain for us the other way
around i promised a billion and i gave you half a billion right i'm giving you more whatever register
just do it and number of people who complain yeah number of people who noticed zero nobody noticed
yeah the usage base thing is big for me i mean like for us uh we model our entire business
on the idea of our cost being usage base and it simplifies so many so many so many things but
our cost our cost is not usage based oh yeah of course because you're you're an infrastructure
provider yeah so you have the challenge of trans translating from one to the other but that but that's
a challenge that i'm having now because now now i projected the growth that we have because we're
seeing like 30 to 40 percent growth every month oh wow in the platform right so from zero users to
zero which is not like uh but we're we're seeing like good growth in in the first three months we
were like cost you know just just do it just do it just do it we promised we promised you like up
to nine gigabytes which people misunderstand because it's really like three gigabytes replicated in
three regions so your database is three gigabytes but replica gets replicated so i promise you that
but we didn't have any code to out of scale you to that level so we provisioned everybody with
nine gigabytes and people use like a hundred k so like our costs started to get they are getting
like completely out of control because we provision uvms but we're charging up our users there is a
mismatch there but now again now that i have a product now that i know that people like you now
that i have my first couple of paying users we have around like 15 to 20 users on the scalar plan
and a bunch of other like three users in the thousands now is the time to go and and oh let's
raining the costs and bring figure out the different architecture yeah we start optimizing
right before it wasn't the time to even the multi-tenancy like we wanted to build the server
multi-tenant from the start we knew it was a good use case like it takes a lot longer like in the
vm stuff you put a database there provision boom we've done right and now people are asking me now
i know it's a it's real why i would love for people to understand is you guys are paying that price
that cost that effort of translating a vm to use based that is like a fantastic service that you
are providing for other people because now anyone building on top they're not being charged by you
guys unless they are making money or like they're like doing some kind of operation that that's
useful and i think people do not understand how magical and incredible that is it's one of the
big reasons why uh like we build everything on AWS we have all users based costs there it's it's
amazing like AWS gigantic company does the crazy difficult accounting work of across all their
customers what do they need to provision so that they can charge a user's base it's like it simplifies
your business so so so so much and whenever you see a provider offering user based you take a
advantage of it because that's like otherwise that leaks into your it becomes your problem right if
i'm running if you guys aren't doing that if i'm paying for like database vms i now need to do
that translation which is a lot harder because i only have myself as a user you guys have
you know a bunch of users that you can distribute the cost of that between so uh yeah i love
user based pricing um i like whenever i see that i'm like okay that's the option we got to go with
yeah and that and that's uh that's our Wednesday announcement which will uh lots of people lots
of people have been asking us that like because what we have now is uh what we had until last week
was a free tier which costs you nothing gives a certain allowances and then a 29 dollars a month
tier which gives you a lot more grant so it's a hundred times in terms of reads it's a hundred
times more for 29 bucks but what a lot of people have been asking us is like what if what if i'm
in the middle right i i want to right but like uh we have our reasons i think not to go full
usage basis also because some people don't like it right just to because of the predictability
so what we're doing is essentially allowing you to go over like okay so so you and and i'm going
to give you a discount if you move to if you commit to the 29 dollars a month yeah so i would charge
you for example you have your allowances and then i'm going to charge you a dollar for an extra
billion dollar queries yeah now our free tier offers one billion our scalar pen offers you a hundred
billion so if you are purely usage based until the 29 you're going to be paying you a hundred
dollars a month but like what i'm doing is that i'm giving you the opportunity to spend one to
spend two yeah exactly and then we just say oh now now i'm crossing the chasm let let me just
commit for 29 right yeah yeah and on the 29 dollars instead of this extra billion instead
instead of costing you one dollar it's it costs you 75 cents so again i want people to upgrade i
want people to become paying customers but we're giving you this like this initial ramp as well
yeah the ramp is what's key because otherwise you have these jumps like with other providers like
it'll be whatever they're charging you maybe supports a thousand users the moment you have a
thousand and one you're selling your cost of now like triple you might go from making money to
losing money yeah so the the ramp of it like the act the absolute price is fine whatever they're
charging me for that tier is fine but i want to ramp up there i don't want to just go there because
i got one extra user right so yeah those little things like that i think again i think until you're
in the position of it's your money that you're spending you maybe don't pay attention that stuff
as much but it's it's it just lower so much complexity it's not about the costs about the things you
have to think about and things that you can avoid thinking about which is what i really appreciate
thank you for joining me it's great yeah appreciate i'm glad i finally got to cut to chat thanks thank you